---
title: > 
 100 Days of Code - Days 101-200 
date: 2023-02-12
tags: ["post", "a11y", "ux", "featured", "100-days-of-code"]
image: '/assets/blog/roman-synkevych-eat-sleep-code-repeat-unsplash.jpg'
imageAlt: 'Cell phone with dark screen and neon words saying eat, sleep, code, repeat'
imageCaption: 'ADD CAPTION'
description: > 
 This is a daily record of my second iteration of 100 Days of Code. This time I'm doing 5 days a week instead of 7. I love the structure of 100 Days of Code, but having a break to do other things keeps coding fresh. This iteration I'm starting by focusing on UI Design and Engineering - including the nitty gritty of Figma, the fundamentals of design, and more advanced CSS including animations. As always I'm thinking about how what I'm learning impacts and interacts with accessibility.
---

This is a daily record of my second iteration of 100 Days of Code. I'll also be posting on LinkedIn, and doing occasional articles.

This time I'm doing 5 days a week instead of 7. I love the structure of 100 Days of Code, but having a break to do other things keeps coding fresh. It's also makes my math brain happy, because with 5 days per week that means that this second round will be 20 weeks/5 months long. (It feels like a knitting pattern!)

This iteration I'm going deeper into each web development area, starting with UI Design and Engineering - including the nitty gritty of Figma, the fundamentals of design, and more advanced CSS including animations. Then on to reviewing and up-skilling more advanced vanilla Javascript including using APIs, with perhaps diving into some backend (maybe). The last third of the 100days will be focused on react and other javascript libraries like typescript.

As always I'm thinking about how what I'm learning impacts and interacts with accessibility.
I started this record with a chart, but I think it's more readable as individual paragraphs. So I'm rewriting and publishing at the end of my second week. 

**Note:** As this is an ongoing record, the last entry in the list may be incomplete. It's going to be updated and pushed to GitHub almost daily. (Feb 24, 2023 - Yes, I have to add active links to the urls on this page. I have limited time today. That's on my to do list for next week.)

### Week 01 of 20 - February 12, 2023 - Scrimba UI Design Course

#### Day 101  |  2023-02-12  |   Sunday  | Focus: UI Design  |  

Main Resource: Scrimba UI Design Course https://scrimba.com/learn/designbootcamp

Completed: Full Project Refactoring up to "Initial Media Queries"                                                                                     

Refection: I will want to repeat this project in VSCode to really get a handle on the nav, flexbox, and grid.  Maybe the best way to get flexbox and grid solid is to write articles w/ code blocks?

#### Day 102  |  2023-02-13  |  Monday  |  Focus: UI Design  |  

Main Resource: Scrimba UI Design Course https://scrimba.com/learn/designbootcamp

Completed: Finish Full Project Refactoring: https://scrimba.com/playlist/pYLZZS6                                                                                 

Refection: I will want to repeat this project in VSCode to really get a handle on the nav, flexbox, and grid.    Maybe the best way to get flexbox and grid solid is to write articles w/ code blocks?

#### Day 103  |  2023-02-14  |  Tuesday | Focus: UI Design Including Figma |  

Main Resource: Scrimba UI Design Course https://scrimba.com/learn/designbootcamp

Completed: Start TeaPlace Design Project. Create initial Figma mockup (mobile), start CSS code. Create initial Figma mockup (mobile), start CSS code.  Was part of Scrimba Townhall at lunchtime on Discord.                                                                                 

Refection:  There's a lot of decisions to make with design! The "brand colours" provided don't have the best contrast. Got around this by using opacity (#fff with 20% opacity) for the main background

#### Day 104  |  2023-02-15  |   Wednesday  |  Focus: UI Design  |  

Main Resource: Scrimba UI Design Course https://scrimba.com/learn/designbootcamp

Completed: Implement mobile design in CSS. Review solution video for getting mobile nav working for TeaPlace project https://scrimba.com/playlist/pWrJxtZ                                                                                

Refection: Next step is to go back over, code along, and make sure I understand why this solution works vs solution in previous section works for mobile nav

#### Writing Day  | 2023-02-16 | Thursday |  Focus: Writing (not 100daysofcode)

Coding notes from today: Tired, tea was still brewing, and typed "git commit -a" instead of "git add ." when doing a commit for the article I'm working on. I ended up needing to research how to stop a git process. Used "rm -f .git/index.lock" from https://www.javaprogramto.com/2021/11/another-git-process-seems-to-be-running-in-this-repository.html

#### Day 105  |  2023-02-17  |  Focus: UI Design - Drop Shadows |  

Main Resource: Scrimba UI Design Course https://scrimba.com/learn/designbootcamp

Completed: UI Design Drop Shadows Module https://scrimba.com/playlist/pG63yU5                                                                                     

Refection: I'm tired today, so took a break from the larger TeaPlace project to learn something smaller.   Best/easiest to use rbga instead of hex for drop shadows because of the last value(a). Used https://rgbacolorpicker.com/ to pick colours. Also https://shadows.brumm.af/ for layered shadows.



### Week 02 of 20 - February 20, 2023 

#### Day 106  |  2023-02-20  |  Monday  |  Focus: UI Design  |  

Main Resource: Scrimba UI Design Course: https://scrimba.com/learn/designbootcamp

Completed: Gradients module up to button gradient                                                                                   

Refection: Even though I'm good with colours and have a design background for some reason I'm finding gradients a design challenge.

#### Day 107  |  2023-02-21  |   Tuesday  |  Focus: UI Design  |  

Main Resource: 1) Scrimba UI Design Course: https://scrimba.com/learn/designbootcamp

Completed: Completed gradients module of UI Design course. https://scrimba.com/playlist/pDyKJfg Was part of Scrimba Townhall at lunchtime on Discord.                                                                
Also: Watched JS Documentary by Honeypot https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8pDqJVdNa44&t=2s

Refection: Still having some issues with coming up with nice gradients, especially for light themed designs. Hmmm... something to keep thinking about. Maybe this is why I'm not into ombre colour changes in knitting?

#### Day 108a  |  2023-02-12  |  Wednesday  |  Focus: CSS Grid  & Flexbox |  

Main Resource: Kevin Powell "Learn CSS Grid the easy way" https://youtu.be/rg7Fvvl3taU and "Learn CSS Flexbox the easy way" https://youtu.be/u044iM9xsWU

Completed: This was a research and reflection day.   I'm counting it as a 1/2 day so will be doing 30 minutes on Saturday.                                                                                 

Refection: For grid, XXXXXXX

#### Day 109  |  2023-02-12  |  Thursday  |  Focus: Blog Design Tweaks & Article Debugging |  

Main Resource: n/a 

Completed: Debugging and fine tuning my blog's CSS for my long form article "Good vs Great Design: UX and Mobility Aids" https://gingerkiwi.blog/blog/2023-02-23-good-vs-great-design-ux-and-mobility-aids/                                                                              

Refection: I'm so glad that article is done! It was chocking up the writing and dev pipeline for weeks. For LinkedIn posts that connect to my blog post articles, it's best if all the images use html tags instead of markdown format. It leads to the main image being the main one in the LinkedIn post instead of just the first image in the body of the article.

#### Day 110  |  2023-02-12  |  Friday  |  Focus: CSS Grid  |  

Main Resource: Kevin Powell  Learn CSS Grid the easy way https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rg7Fvvl3taU&t=202s 
Second Resource: Kevin Powell  Get started with grid WITHOUT being overwhelmed https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8QSqwbSztnA

Completed:  Watched up to 25min (media queries), took notes, rewatched sections to make sure I got things.
Also, Finally introduced myself on the Dear Junior Dev discord.

Refection: 
- both display grid and display flex result in elements without collapsing margins
- use gap instead of margins for space between elements
- for display grid,  declare 
``` css
parent-element {
	display: grid;
	grid-template-columns: repeat(3 fr );
	/* this gives three columns of equal width*/
}
/* and the child elements will be put in columns*/
```

Also display grid means that items are not block, inline, or inline-block, they are grid elements.

- to get a div that spans across two columns create a class like 
```css
.grid-span-2 {
	grid-column: span 2;
}
```
Don't use line numbers until you need to use line numbers. Keep things as simple as possible. This class " .grid-span-2" can be reused.

To be specific about where an element should start and end, the short form is:

``` css
element-name {
	grid-column: 1 / 3; /* starts on the very left, ends at the left of column 3*/
	grid-row: 2 / 5: /* starts at the top of the second row and ends at the top of the 5th row*/
}
```

This other way of writing the code has the same result:
``` css
element-name {
	grid-column: 1 / span 2; /* starts on the very left, spans two columns*/
	grid-row: 2 / span 3: /* starts at the top of the second row spans three rows*/
}
```